# Part 1 {#part-1 .unnumbered}

## Questions {#questions .unnumbered}

1.  According to the text, Nadiem Anwar Makarim explained the details of
    the PPKS Permendikbudristek, which later drew polemics from some
    communities. In your perspective, what polemics would probably
    emerge regarding the PPKS Permendikbudristek/regulation of sexual
    violence in university. Why do you think this regulation could
    create polemics? Please elaborate your answers with strong
    arguments, real examples, and valid sources/references!

2.  In your perspective, do you agree that formal sex education must be
    implemented in university curriculum? Please elaborate your answers
    with arguments, valid sources/references!

## Answers {#answers .unnumbered}

1.  From my perspective, there would be few polemics that would be
    emerge related to this bill. First, few phrases inside this bill can
    be misunderstood. If you read the bill in the Article 5, there will
    be a lot of *\"without the victim's consent\"* phrase in the points.
    And I think that this phrase would create many problems because this
    phrase can be misinterpreted by alot of people to encourage consent
    and free sex. Another one is

    These polemics could be happened because many people have different
    opinion about what sexual violence is about. Some people thought
    that sexual violence only happened when there is intercourse without
    consent. And anything other than that (like catcalling, sexual
    assault, etc) to them is a relatively an okay thing to do. Another
    reason is talking about sex is mostly a taboo thing in Indonesia, so
    a bill about sexual violence would create many misunderstanding
    among people. Many people would argue that this bill would legalize
    extramarital and adultery in Indonesia's universities. And I could
    think these would happened because their opinion would be very
    biased by their beliefs.

2.  

# Part 2 {#part-2 .unnumbered}

## Outline {#outline .unnumbered}

In this digital age, there's a lot of things that changed and shaped our
society by media. And beauty is one of those things that has changed.
But because of that, our society set the standards of Indonesian women's
beauty to the point where it is unrealistic and not representing women
as an Indonesian at all. Few stigma that grows inside our society mind
are like how light your skin is, how slim your body is, and how *young*
your face is like. And those stigma create a huge impact on how
Indonesian women saw themselves. One of the impact of this fact is 68%
of Indonesian women did not feel pretty when they didn't use cosmetics
based on Beauty Confidence Report survey in 2018 [@maleSurvei84Persen].
Therefore, I propose that Indonesian women should not mind or follow any
unrealistic beauty standards that have been set by society and media.

First, Indonesian women should not attached or focused too much on what
social media, or even media in general shows them about beauty, but
instead be themselves as it is. Because media portrayal is one of the
main culprit on how people perceive women's beauty. We can see it on
Indonesia's beauty product commercial who make a stigma where a women
with lighter skin is prettier than the women with a darker skin color
[@prianti2013indonesian]. There's also social media impact on beauty
standard; not only in Indonesia, but in the whole world. Based on
@fardoulyNegativeComparisonsOne2015 survey in
[-@fardoulyNegativeComparisonsOne2015], many women reported that they
often tend to compare their own appearance negatively with their friends
and with celebrities in social media. Indonesia is a diverse country
filled with variety of people with different color, race, and
characteristics; and this includes Indonesian women who have their
unique natural beauty compared to other country
[@wirasariKAJIANKECANTIKANKAUM2016]. And not only that,
@prianti2013indonesian in her paper said that beauty of women should
also be defined in various way, not by a set list of fixed
characteristics. Then, how do you gain confidence? In her interview with
@kumparanwomanBagaimanaCaraMeningkatkan2019, Pingkan C.B. Rumondor; a
clinical psychologist said there are three ways a woman can do to gain
self-confidence. First, you need to set goals in order to gain
successfull experience. This experience will contribute to increasing
your self-confidence. Then, you'll need a positive feedback from people.
Those feedback can be retrieved by asking your close relatives about
your personality and your quality in their perspectives. And those
feedback will indirectly helps you to achieve your goals and gain self
confidence. And lastly, find a mentor or a role model who are successful
in their career. Because a mentor will really helps on guiding you to be
successful just like them.

Besides confidence, I think that women's inner beauty is a lot more
important than outer beauty. But before that, what is an *\"inner
beauty\"*? According to Plato, inner beauty is a beauty based on how
their action is morally good [@wisnubrataCaraMemancarkanInner2020].
Another definition by @schmalzriedInnerBeautyFriendshipHypothesis2013.
who defines inner beauty as

> *a person who insofar inwardly beautiful because she effortlessly or
> out of love and affection does what is morally required or
> praiseworthy.*

And by those two definition, it concludes that inner beauty is a beauty
where kindness, moral, and achievements are more taken into account,
rather than how beautiful and sexy you are. So, why inner beauty is a
lot more important than outer beauty? According to an article by
@fimela.comIniAlasanMengapa2018, there are a few reasons. First, Not
everyone can have inner beauty. It means that a lot of people only have
a good-looking face, but not a good heart or a big confidence. So, a
person who do have inner beauty can looks different than the people who
don't. Another one is that inner beauty has a very long-lasting effect;
even eternals, compared to outer beauty. This is because inner beauty is
measured by their personality and their heart, and these two elements
are very hard to change overtime. Compared that with a good-looking
face. As we're getting older, our face will get wrinkles and other
things that we can't avoid. And the last point is, inner beauty is more
appreciated by people than outer beauty. For example, when applying for
jobs, people are not looking by your face to hire you, but by how good
your personality is. Because looks can be polished by make-up, but not
personality. There are few steps that Indonesian women could do to
achieve inner beauty, based on article written by SehatQ. First is you
should thinking more positively about your personality rather to think
about how do you look. Because it's easier to think about personality
and it has a lot of benefits for your health too. Another one is knowing
yourself. Knowing in here means that women should focus more on their
life quality. And by knowing themself, they will find meanings about
happiness and satisfaction in their life. And lastly, just like my first
point is to be yourself. Don't think too much about other people's look
and comparing to yourself. Don't be jealous because they have been
gifted a really pretty face compared to your regular face. But instead,
be yourself. Be what you are. And focus on things that really matters.
Things like your hobby, your passion, and your future. Rich yourself
with new experience and create new memories for your life. Because by
doing that, you will find your inner beauty eventually.

There's still a lot of women in Indonesia that are not confident by
their own body because of society's stigma about beauty. Stigma like
having slim body and bright skin to be \"beautiful\" is what concerning
to a lot of women in Indonesia and therefore, creating a bad habit and
bad experience for them to chase that unrealistic beauty standards. One
of the reason on why all of this happened because how media portray
beauty in television shows, ads, and social media. Media often linked
beautifulness with foreign women beauty characteristics rather than
using Indonesian own unique natural beauty. That's why, Indonesian women
should be confident about themselves. Also, more women should focused
more on inner beauty rather than outer beauty. Because inner beauty has
a very long lasting effect rather than outer beauty, and most people
appreciate inner beauty more. That's why kind people is often hard to
find these days rather than good-looking people. Therefore, Indonesian
women should not be bother anymore by any of beauty standards set by
society.
